Very rarely does anything have a purpose, I thought. Purpose in the sense that beyond something’s prescribed rules or function, there is nothing other than existence and equilibrium. “Purpose” bears too much weight, gives too much hope, creates too much illusion. Purpose does not exist. Everything that ever was, is, or will be has been predetermined since the start of time. We merely live in a continuum of inevitabilities. What is, is. 

But here I am, bare feet in the creek water with numb toes and frizzed hair from the humidity. Here I always am, where I was meant and mean to be. It is in places like this where I feel my life to be the most purposeless, small. In a way, however, this is humbling and freeing. I am not called to do anything. I am alive because of the ways and intent of nature, and the continuum of inevitabilities I coincidentally exist alongside. But now, I think, if anything on this unforgiving landscape has a purpose-- it’s the trees. Beyond function, the trees are built for survival. The element of persistence I see in trees is something I find humans lack. Perhaps, then, purpose is unquestionable, unmitigable persistence. 

I look up, stand up, and take about 10 steps backward. I take a look at my surroundings, of the landscape. To the middle left, there’s a smallish tree with a light brown trunk, no more than 6 inches in diameter. The tree bears shockingly white leaves, forming a circular shape at the top. The leaves so white that they’re, in some odd way, bluish-- iridescent and shocking. The tree is erected from delicate, paper-like, vibrant green grass, which uniformly covers the ground without a single flaw. Behind the tree is the creek where I was soaking my feet. The creek exists without a gradual slope leading to the west-flowing stream. The earth does not look like it was gradually chipped away at for years, no. The creek exists in between two, 6-inch cliff edges on either side. The vibrant green grass slightly drapes over the small shelf, and the shelf exposes what lies beneath the grass-- a rich, dense brown. There are no rocks in the dirt beneath the grass, barely any roots to be seen. I wonder, now, what was holding the earth together. And how come when I stepped on it, it didn’t give to my weight. Solid as a rock in which it lacks, the ground was level and strong. The grass it bore was soft, a tad wet. I am reminded of Red’s hair when he was 5. Cut short, soft, even. It was wet with round, tensioned droplets the last time I saw him. 

I look to my right. As sudden as the creek, there’s a silent waterfall about 10 feet high. The cliff which it falls from is at a straight right angle. The earth of the cliff the water kisses is a coal-like black, mismatching the brown surrounding the creek. The water itself, both at the waterfall and the creek it flows to is blue. A transparent, dreamy blue similar to the iridescence of the white leaves. 

It’d be easy to get up to the top of the waterfall. Right behind me is a slope, carpeted with the same grass, that you can follow up to the top of the waterfall. I have not been up there yet. 

I look across to the other side of the creek where the thick of the forest resumes. It’s dark, bluish and purplish. The grass becomes clovers and the general iridescence of the clearing transforms to a perceivable mysticism and uninviting mystery. I don’t believe it would be wise to trek barefoot through there. Unlike the way to the white tree clearing, there is no path through that half of the woods. It is as if this is where the path is intended to end. The white tree, waterfall, grass… this was the destination. The destination. There was no point to continuing onward, no matter how easy it would be to hop over the creek. 

My mind returns to purpose. Everything I am looking at seems so mindfully placed, so thoughtful and intentional. Now, I think mindfulness and purpose cannot coexist. They are intrinsically different. This scene, this clearing, therefore, cannot bear and purpose. It just… is. I am here because I am. Red isn’t here because… because. I am still unable to properly assess his absence. But I do know however, that like me, he would have dipped his feet in the creek. He would have taken a step back to fully absorb the scenery, even as a 5 year old. That’s who he was, and 6 years later… I know that it is who he still is. 
